src/langsmith/deploy-hybrid.mdx, before:

---
title: Set up hybrid LangSmith
sidebarTitle: Setup guide
icon: "cloud"
---

<Info>
**Important**
The Hybrid deployment option requires an [Enterprise](https://langchain.com/pricing) plan.
</Info>

The [**hybrid**](/langsmith/hybrid) model lets you run the [data plane](/langsmith/data-plane)—your Agent Server deployments and agent workloads—in your own cloud, while LangChain hosts and manages the [control plane](/langsmith/control-plane) (the LangSmith UI and orchestration). This setup gives you the flexibility of self-hosting your runtime environments with the convenience of a managed LangSmith instance.

The following steps describe how to connect your self-hosted data plane to the managed LangSmith control plane.

## Kubernetes

### Prerequisites

1. `KEDA` is installed on your cluster.
    ```bash
      helm repo add kedacore https://kedacore.github.io/charts
      helm install keda kedacore/keda --namespace keda --create-namespace
    ```
2. A valid `Ingress` controller is installed on your cluster. For more information about configuring ingress for your deployment, refer to [Create an ingress for installations](/langsmith/self-host-ingress). We highly recommend using the modern [Gateway API](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-2%3A-gateway-api) in a production setup.
3. If you plan to have the listener watch multiple namespaces, you **MUST** use the [Gateway API](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-2%3A-gateway-api) or an [Istio Gateway](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-3%3A-istio-gateway) instead of the [standard ingress](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-1%3A-standard-ingress) resource. A standard ingress resource can only route traffic to services in the same namespace, whereas a Gateway or Istio Gateway can route traffic to services across multiple namespaces.
4. You have slack space in your cluster for multiple deployments. `Cluster-Autoscaler` is recommended to automatically provision new nodes.
5. You will need to enable egress to two control plane URLs. The listener polls these endpoints for deployments:
    - https://api.host.langchain.com
    - https://api.smith.langchain.com

### Setup

1. Provide your LangSmith organization ID to us. Your LangSmith organization will be configured to deploy the data plane in your cloud.
2. Create a listener from the LangSmith UI. The `Listener` data model is configured for the actual ["listener" application](/langsmith/data-plane#”listener”-application).
    1. In the left-hand navigation, select `Deployments` > `Listeners`.
    2. In the top-right of the page, select `+ Create Listener`.
    3. Enter a unique `Compute ID` for the listener. The `Compute ID` is a user-defined identifier that should be unique across all listeners in the current LangSmith workspace. The `Compute ID` is displayed to end users when they are creating a new deployment. Ensure that the `Compute ID` provides context to the end user about where their Agent Server deployments will be deployed to. For example, a `Compute ID` can be set to `k8s-cluster-name-dev-01`. In this example, the name of the Kubernetes cluster is `k8s-cluster-name`, `dev` denotes that the cluster is reserved for "development" workloads, and `01` is a numerical suffix to reduce naming collisions.
    4. Enter one or more Kubernetes namespaces. Later, the "listener" application will be configured to deploy to each of these namespaces.
    5. In the top-right on the page, select `Submit`.
    6. After the listener is created, copy the listener ID. You will use it later when installing the actual "listener" application in the Kubernetes cluster (step 5).
    <Info>
    **Important**
    Creating a listener from the LangSmith UI does not install the "listener" application in the Kubernetes cluster.
    </Info>
3. A [Helm chart](https://github.com/langchain-ai/helm/tree/main/charts/langgraph-dataplane) is provided to install the necesssary components in your Kubernetes cluster.
    - `langgraph-dataplane-listener`: This is a service that listens to LangChain's [control plane](/langsmith/control-plane) for changes to your deployments and creates/updates downstream CRDs. This is the ["listener" application](/langsmith/data-plane#”listener”-application).
    - `LangGraphPlatform CRD`: A CRD for LangSmith Deployment. This contains the spec for managing an instance of a LangSmith Deployment.
    - `langgraph-dataplane-operator`: This operator handles changes to your LangSmith CRDs.
    - `langgraph-dataplane-redis`: A Redis instance is used by the `langgraph-dataplane-listener` to manage various tasks (mainly creating and deleting deployments).
4. Configure your `langgraph-dataplane-values.yaml` file.
    ```bash
      config:
        langsmithApiKey: "" # API Key of your Workspace
        langsmithWorkspaceId: "" # Workspace ID
        hostBackendUrl: "https://api.host.langchain.com" # Only override this if on EU
        smithBackendUrl: "https://api.smith.langchain.com" # Only override this if on EU
        langgraphListenerId: "" # Listener ID from Step 2f
        watchNamespaces: "" # comma-separated list of Kubernetes namespaces that the listener and operator will deploy to
        enableLGPDeploymentHealthCheck: true # enable/disable health check step for deployments

      ingress:
        hostname: "" # specify a hostname that will be configured for all deployments

      operator:
        enabled: true
        createCRDs: true # set this to `false` if the CRD has been previously installed in the current Kubernetes cluster
    ```
    - `config.langsmithApiKey`: The `langgraph-listener` deployment authenticates with LangChain's LangGraph control plane API with the `langsmithApiKey`.
    - `config.langsmithWorkspaceId`: The `langgraph-listener` deployment is coupled to Agent Server deployments in the LangSmith workspace. In other words, the `langgraph-listener` deployment can only manage Agent Server deployments in the specified LangSmith workspace ID.
    - `config.langgraphListenerId`: In addition to being coupled with a LangSmith workspace, the `langgraph-listener` deployment is also coupled to a listener. When a new Agent Server deployment is created, it is automatically coupled to a `langgraphListenerId`. Specifying `langgraphListenerId` ensures that the `langgraph-listener` deployment can only manage Agent Server deployments that are coupled to `langgraphListenerId`.
    - `config.watchNamespaces`: A comma-separated list of Kubernetes namespaces that the `langgraph-listener` deployment will deploy to. This list should match the list of namespaces specified in step 2d.
    - `config.enableLGPDeploymentHealthCheck`: To disable the Agent Server health check, set this to `false`.
    - `ingress.hostname`: As part of the deployment workflow, the `langgraph-listener` deployment attempts to call the Agent Server health check endpoint (`GET /ok`) to verify that the application has started up correctly. A typical setup involves creating a shared DNS record or domain for Agent Server deployments. This is not managed by LangSmith. Once created, set `ingress.hostname` to the domain, which will be used to complete the health check.
    - `operator.createCRDs`: Set this value to `false` if the Kubernetes cluster already has the `LangGraphPlatform CRD` installed. During installation, an error will occur if the CRD is already installed. This situation may occur if multiple listeners are deployed on the same Kubernetes cluster.
5. Deploy `langgraph-dataplane` Helm chart.
    ```bash
      helm repo add langchain https://langchain-ai.github.io/helm/
      helm repo update
      helm upgrade -i langgraph-dataplane langchain/langgraph-dataplane --values langgraph-dataplane-values.yaml --wait --debug
    ```
6. If successful, you will see three services start up in your namespace.
    ```bash
      NAME                                            READY   STATUS              RESTARTS   AGE
      langgraph-dataplane-listener-6dd4749445-zjmr4   0/1     ContainerCreating   0          26s
      langgraph-dataplane-operator-6b88879f9b-t76gk   1/1     Running             0          26s
      langgraph-dataplane-redis-0                     1/1     Running             0          25s
    ```

    Your hybrid infrastructure is now ready to create deployments.

### Configuring additional data planes in the same cluster
To create a data plane in a different namespace in the same cluster, repeat the above steps and pass a `-n` option to `helm upgrade` to specify a different namespace.

**When installing multiple data planes in the same cluster, it is very important to follow the rules below:**
1. The `config.watchNamespaces` list should never intersect with other installations `config.watchNamespaces`. For example, if installation A is watching namespaces `foo,bar`, installation B cannot watch either `foo` or `bar`. Multiple operators or listeners watching the same namespace will lead to unexpected behavior. This means that multiple LangSmith workspaces cannot deploy to the same namespace! Please review the [cluster organization](/langsmith/hybrid#kubernetes-cluster-organization) section to understand this better. 
2. It is required to use the [Gateway API](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-2%3A-gateway-api) or an [Istio Gateway](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-3%3A-istio-gateway). Relying on the [standard ingress](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-1%3A-standard-ingress) resource can cause conflicts with Ingress objects created by other data planes in the same cluster. Because behavior in these cases depends on the specific ingress controller, this may result in unpredictable or undesired outcomes.


## Next steps

Once your infrastructure is set up, you're ready to deploy applications. See the deployment guides in the [Deployment tab](/langsmith/deployments) for instructions on building and deploying your applications.

Commit message:

docs: add KEDA explanation and fix prerequisites numbering
- Add Info box explaining KEDA's purpose in both hybrid and self-hosted deployment guides
- Fix sequential numbering in self-hosted full platform prerequisites (was 3, 6, 7, 8, 9; now 3, 4, 5, 6, 7)

The Info boxes clarify that KEDA is used to automatically scale the deployment system based on queue size, providing context for why it's a prerequisite.

src/langsmith/deploy-hybrid.mdx, after:

---
title: Set up hybrid LangSmith
sidebarTitle: Setup guide
icon: "cloud"
---

<Info>
**Important**
The Hybrid deployment option requires an [Enterprise](https://langchain.com/pricing) plan.
</Info>

The [**hybrid**](/langsmith/hybrid) model lets you run the [data plane](/langsmith/data-plane)—your Agent Server deployments and agent workloads—in your own cloud, while LangChain hosts and manages the [control plane](/langsmith/control-plane) (the LangSmith UI and orchestration). This setup gives you the flexibility of self-hosting your runtime environments with the convenience of a managed LangSmith instance.

The following steps describe how to connect your self-hosted data plane to the managed LangSmith control plane.

## Kubernetes

### Prerequisites

1. `KEDA` is installed on your cluster.
    ```bash
      helm repo add kedacore https://kedacore.github.io/charts
      helm install keda kedacore/keda --namespace keda --create-namespace
    ```

    <Info>
    KEDA is used to automatically scale the deployment system based on queue size.
    </Info>

2. A valid `Ingress` controller is installed on your cluster. For more information about configuring ingress for your deployment, refer to [Create an ingress for installations](/langsmith/self-host-ingress). We highly recommend using the modern [Gateway API](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-2%3A-gateway-api) in a production setup.
3. If you plan to have the listener watch multiple namespaces, you **MUST** use the [Gateway API](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-2%3A-gateway-api) or an [Istio Gateway](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-3%3A-istio-gateway) instead of the [standard ingress](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-1%3A-standard-ingress) resource. A standard ingress resource can only route traffic to services in the same namespace, whereas a Gateway or Istio Gateway can route traffic to services across multiple namespaces.
4. You have slack space in your cluster for multiple deployments. `Cluster-Autoscaler` is recommended to automatically provision new nodes.
5. You will need to enable egress to two control plane URLs. The listener polls these endpoints for deployments:
    - https://api.host.langchain.com
    - https://api.smith.langchain.com

### Setup

1. Provide your LangSmith organization ID to us. Your LangSmith organization will be configured to deploy the data plane in your cloud.
2. Create a listener from the LangSmith UI. The `Listener` data model is configured for the actual ["listener" application](/langsmith/data-plane#”listener”-application).
    1. In the left-hand navigation, select `Deployments` > `Listeners`.
    2. In the top-right of the page, select `+ Create Listener`.
    3. Enter a unique `Compute ID` for the listener. The `Compute ID` is a user-defined identifier that should be unique across all listeners in the current LangSmith workspace. The `Compute ID` is displayed to end users when they are creating a new deployment. Ensure that the `Compute ID` provides context to the end user about where their Agent Server deployments will be deployed to. For example, a `Compute ID` can be set to `k8s-cluster-name-dev-01`. In this example, the name of the Kubernetes cluster is `k8s-cluster-name`, `dev` denotes that the cluster is reserved for "development" workloads, and `01` is a numerical suffix to reduce naming collisions.
    4. Enter one or more Kubernetes namespaces. Later, the "listener" application will be configured to deploy to each of these namespaces.
    5. In the top-right on the page, select `Submit`.
    6. After the listener is created, copy the listener ID. You will use it later when installing the actual "listener" application in the Kubernetes cluster (step 5).
    <Info>
    **Important**
    Creating a listener from the LangSmith UI does not install the "listener" application in the Kubernetes cluster.
    </Info>
3. A [Helm chart](https://github.com/langchain-ai/helm/tree/main/charts/langgraph-dataplane) is provided to install the necesssary components in your Kubernetes cluster.
    - `langgraph-dataplane-listener`: This is a service that listens to LangChain's [control plane](/langsmith/control-plane) for changes to your deployments and creates/updates downstream CRDs. This is the ["listener" application](/langsmith/data-plane#”listener”-application).
    - `LangGraphPlatform CRD`: A CRD for LangSmith Deployment. This contains the spec for managing an instance of a LangSmith Deployment.
    - `langgraph-dataplane-operator`: This operator handles changes to your LangSmith CRDs.
    - `langgraph-dataplane-redis`: A Redis instance is used by the `langgraph-dataplane-listener` to manage various tasks (mainly creating and deleting deployments).
4. Configure your `langgraph-dataplane-values.yaml` file.
    ```bash
      config:
        langsmithApiKey: "" # API Key of your Workspace
        langsmithWorkspaceId: "" # Workspace ID
        hostBackendUrl: "https://api.host.langchain.com" # Only override this if on EU
        smithBackendUrl: "https://api.smith.langchain.com" # Only override this if on EU
        langgraphListenerId: "" # Listener ID from Step 2f
        watchNamespaces: "" # comma-separated list of Kubernetes namespaces that the listener and operator will deploy to
        enableLGPDeploymentHealthCheck: true # enable/disable health check step for deployments

      ingress:
        hostname: "" # specify a hostname that will be configured for all deployments

      operator:
        enabled: true
        createCRDs: true # set this to `false` if the CRD has been previously installed in the current Kubernetes cluster
    ```
    - `config.langsmithApiKey`: The `langgraph-listener` deployment authenticates with LangChain's LangGraph control plane API with the `langsmithApiKey`.
    - `config.langsmithWorkspaceId`: The `langgraph-listener` deployment is coupled to Agent Server deployments in the LangSmith workspace. In other words, the `langgraph-listener` deployment can only manage Agent Server deployments in the specified LangSmith workspace ID.
    - `config.langgraphListenerId`: In addition to being coupled with a LangSmith workspace, the `langgraph-listener` deployment is also coupled to a listener. When a new Agent Server deployment is created, it is automatically coupled to a `langgraphListenerId`. Specifying `langgraphListenerId` ensures that the `langgraph-listener` deployment can only manage Agent Server deployments that are coupled to `langgraphListenerId`.
    - `config.watchNamespaces`: A comma-separated list of Kubernetes namespaces that the `langgraph-listener` deployment will deploy to. This list should match the list of namespaces specified in step 2d.
    - `config.enableLGPDeploymentHealthCheck`: To disable the Agent Server health check, set this to `false`.
    - `ingress.hostname`: As part of the deployment workflow, the `langgraph-listener` deployment attempts to call the Agent Server health check endpoint (`GET /ok`) to verify that the application has started up correctly. A typical setup involves creating a shared DNS record or domain for Agent Server deployments. This is not managed by LangSmith. Once created, set `ingress.hostname` to the domain, which will be used to complete the health check.
    - `operator.createCRDs`: Set this value to `false` if the Kubernetes cluster already has the `LangGraphPlatform CRD` installed. During installation, an error will occur if the CRD is already installed. This situation may occur if multiple listeners are deployed on the same Kubernetes cluster.
5. Deploy `langgraph-dataplane` Helm chart.
    ```bash
      helm repo add langchain https://langchain-ai.github.io/helm/
      helm repo update
      helm upgrade -i langgraph-dataplane langchain/langgraph-dataplane --values langgraph-dataplane-values.yaml --wait --debug
    ```
6. If successful, you will see three services start up in your namespace.
    ```bash
      NAME                                            READY   STATUS              RESTARTS   AGE
      langgraph-dataplane-listener-6dd4749445-zjmr4   0/1     ContainerCreating   0          26s
      langgraph-dataplane-operator-6b88879f9b-t76gk   1/1     Running             0          26s
      langgraph-dataplane-redis-0                     1/1     Running             0          25s
    ```

    Your hybrid infrastructure is now ready to create deployments.

### Configuring additional data planes in the same cluster
To create a data plane in a different namespace in the same cluster, repeat the above steps and pass a `-n` option to `helm upgrade` to specify a different namespace.

**When installing multiple data planes in the same cluster, it is very important to follow the rules below:**
1. The `config.watchNamespaces` list should never intersect with other installations `config.watchNamespaces`. For example, if installation A is watching namespaces `foo,bar`, installation B cannot watch either `foo` or `bar`. Multiple operators or listeners watching the same namespace will lead to unexpected behavior. This means that multiple LangSmith workspaces cannot deploy to the same namespace! Please review the [cluster organization](/langsmith/hybrid#kubernetes-cluster-organization) section to understand this better.
2. It is required to use the [Gateway API](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-2%3A-gateway-api) or an [Istio Gateway](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-3%3A-istio-gateway). Relying on the [standard ingress](/langsmith/self-host-ingress#option-1%3A-standard-ingress) resource can cause conflicts with Ingress objects created by other data planes in the same cluster. Because behavior in these cases depends on the specific ingress controller, this may result in unpredictable or undesired outcomes.


## Next steps

Once your infrastructure is set up, you're ready to deploy applications. See the deployment guides in the [Deployment tab](/langsmith/deployments) for instructions on building and deploying your applications.
